So great,
we learn how to type rigid objects.
What about dictionaries?
So let's imagine
an address book situation.
I know the address book and
my phone lets me store multiple phone
numbers where I could say, home,
work, fax, pager, whatever
apparently grew up during the 80s.
So might look something like this, right,
where we have a consistent type of value
that is stored under an arbitrary key.
So we have this nice way to
easily look up values by key,
just give me the work number.
In order to type this properly, we need
something called an index signature.
And here's what that looks like.
We have these square brackets and
you should think of this almost like box
notation for
accessing a value off of a property,
like dictionary square bracket and
then a string for the property key.
That's a good mnemonic device here, right?
So you can pass in any string,
you can call this k whatever you want.
It's sort of arbitrary, cuz you're
not really consuming k elsewhere.
And then this is the type of value
that you will find under each key.
And here we're starting out
with an empty dictionary but
you can see we can reach in and
we will get this object out.
Now, I'm showing you this flavor
of a dictionary for simplicity.
What I like to do is add, and
I'll go out to the playground here.
I like to do this because it's
bothersome that we know this is empty,
and yet we're reaching in and
assuming facts will be there.
Do I really wanna be able to do this?
Which this will happily let me do.
I kinda want that extra
rigor of being asked to
check whether fax is actually present or
not.
But it's up to you different patterns
work for different use cases.
You pass a variable with extra property
to a function that does not use
that property and it'll be okay.
It does sound like you're describing
the excess property erroring case.
TypeScript is basically trying to
discourage you from adding extra
stuff to object literals which it can
guarantee you will not be able to
safely access from within
the body of the function.
And Theresa asks, why does storing that
object as a variable get rid of the error?
Let me take us back to that little screen.
So why is it that if we take this here,
cut my car.
So, when we weren't using
this through a variable we
went in here and we said,
well, let me just copy this.
So we've got a variable right now
we're not currently using and
we're passing this in,
we get this error message.
So I suggest that there is no
way to safely access color.
No way, within the print car function.
Like first nobody can see this
object other than print car.
It's an argument that you're passing to
the function, out here there's just no
way for me to access that object that
I've created, to pass into the function.
The only place we can access it,
is from within print car.
And within print car, we've stated that,
this is the type of object we receive.
So, if I do car.c colors
not appearing on this list.
We can't access that color property.
So based on the fact that only print
car can see it, can see the object,
and print car won't be able to access
that color property that's why
you're getting that error.
Let's see if those same conditions hold
true in the case where we're using
the variable.
So I'm gonna replace this with my car.
And print car still cannot
access a color property because
it doesn't state upfront
that color might be there.
However, down here,
We can see color, right?
We have this variable and conceivably we
could use this variable in other places,
in other ways, maybe for a different
function that wants to see a color there.
So, in the case where we're
storing this as a variable,
you cannot prove that
the color property is a waste.
You cannot prove that it's pointless and
that's why we no longer get the error.
You only get the error when it can be
proven that the property is pointless.